PLC’s :
Programmable Logic Controller (PLC) is an industrial
computer that monitors inputs, makes decisions based on its
program and controls outputs to automate a processor or a machine
The automation of many different processes, such as controlling
machines or factory assembly lines, is done through the use of
small computers called programmable logic controllers (PLCs).
MAJOR PARTS OF PLC’S :
1.) Power supply
2.) CPU
3.) input modules
4.) output modules
5.) programming devices
6.) Memory Unit 
FUNCTIONS OF EACH BLOCK :
POWER SUPPLY :
The power supply provides power for the PLC system.
Common power levels used were 24 volts DC or 120 VAC and
there are other voltages like for communication we have 3.3v and
5v and for the other modules in the system we use 12v and 24v
and it also converts +15v and -15v. 
CENTRAL PROCESSING UNIT (CPU) :
It is the brain of PLC and governs the activities of the entire
PLC systems
The CPU consists of following blocks:
Arithmetic Logic Unit (ALU), Internal
memory of CPU and Internal timers counters
and Flags.
The various operations performed are:
Scanning I/O bus traffic control, Program
execution, Peripheral and External device communication. Data
handling and self diagnostics. 
INPUT MODULES :
The carry signals from the process into the controller.
Ex : Switches, Pushbuttons, Sensors.
The input from the field device is received on the input module.
• The input signal could be digital input signal (0/1) or it could be
analog input signal (4 to 20 mA, 0 to 10V).
• The PLC is a digital device and the CPU of the PLC can
withstand voltage of 5V.
• The Input module receives the input signal from the field devices
which passes through the isolation barrier in the module and is
then convert to the required 5V and then sent to the PLC.
• The isolation barrier prevents the external events from
interfering with the PLC and causing a module failure.
• In the PLC it si stored ni the data memory as a binary value1 for
5V and binary value 0 for 0V.
OUTPUTMODULES :
It convert control instructions a signal that can be used by
actuators.
Ex. : Indicator Lamp, Motor
The value of either 0 or 1 stored in the data memory after
execution of the program is sent to the output module; 
The output module also contains is the isolation barrier which
is used to project the PLC from external interference.
The signal from the PLC is converted to corressponding
analouge or digital signal. According to the module to which it is
connected.
PROGRAMMING DEVICE :
The programming terminal is used for programming the PLC
and monitoring/sequencing PLCs operation.
MEMORY UNIT :
The memory of the PLC has
• Program memory: The Ladder Logic program downloaded wil be
stored ni this memory
PLC PROGRAMMING :
There are many programming languages available, but the
commonly used language is is ladder diagram for PLC. They are ;
1.) Ladder Logic Programming
2.) Instruction List Programming
3.) Structured Text Programming
4.) Sequential Function Charts
5.) Functional Block Programming
6.) Boolean Programming
